======
Elixir
======

-----
About
-----

Elixir is a declarative layer on top of `SQLAlchemy 
<http://www.sqlalchemy.org/>`_. It is a fairly thin wrapper, which provides 
the ability to define model objects following the Active Record design 
pattern, and using a DSL syntax similar to that of the Ruby on Rails 
ActiveRecord system.

Elixir does not intend to replace SQLAlchemy's core features, but instead
focuses on providing a simpler syntax for defining model objects when you do
not need the full expressiveness of SQLAlchemy's manual mapper definitions.

-------
Example
-------

Here is a very short model definition example, so that you can see what the
syntax look like. For some explanation and more complete examples, please have
a look at the `tutorial <tutorial.html>`_ or at the 
`examples page <examples.html>`_.

::

    class Person(Entity):
        has_field('name', Unicode(255))

        has_many('addresses', of_kind='Address')


    class Address(Entity):
        has_field('email', String(128))

        belongs_to('person', of_kind='Person')


-------
History
-------

In 2006, `Jonathan LaCour <http://cleverdevil.org>`_ discovered the fantastic
`SQLAlchemy`_ project, and really liked its power and
flexibility, but found that in many simple cases he would prefer a simpler and
more attractive way to declare his model objects.  As a result, Jonathan spent
a few hours on a weekend to create the `ActiveMapper 
<http://cleverdevil.org/computing/35/>`_ SQLAlchemy extension. 
For a weekend's worth of work, it wasn't half bad, and gained a little bit of 
traction in the wild.  But, over time, it became clear that ActiveMapper 
needed a lot of work to stabilize and become more useful.

Later that year, `Daniel Haus <http://ematia.de>`_ released his own layer on
top of SQLAlchemy, called `TurboEntity <http://turboentity.ematia.de>`_.
TurboEntity solved some of the problems of ActiveMapper, and took a slightly
different approach to the problem. TurboEntity also began to gain some ground
and it became clear to both Daniel and Jonathan that they needed to work
together.

Around the same time, `GaÃ«tan de Menten <http://openhex.com>`_ contacted both
Jonathan and Daniel to reveal that he had been working on his own layer as 
well.  A few weeks later, all three agreed to work together to create a 
replacement for TurboEntity and ActiveMapper using their collective experience
and knowledge.


--------
The Name
--------

The Oxford English Dictionary defines Elixir as: "a magical or medicinal potion,
a preparation that was supposedly able to change metals into gold, sought by 
alchemists."


----------
The Future
----------

The eventual goal of the Elixir project is to become an official SQLAlchemy
extension.  But, before we submit elixir for inclusion within SQLAlchemy, we
want the opportunity to solicit feedback and contributions from users to make
sure that we have ironed out any bugs, missing features, syntax changes, or
documentation deficiencies.
